Tell me about yourself?
I am Post graduate in computer application and started my career with TCS as Middleware administrator where I supported big Middleware giants IBM WebSphere and Oracle Weblogic. Being part of WebSphere Administrator, I can recall when we migrated Weblogic based application into WebSphere. and This helped me in learning how multiple components bind together, were carried out to get output from monolithic application. After satisfactory knowledge and achievements in that role, gradually evolved myself into latest techstack and started working as Site Reliability Engineer where I got to learn facts and importance of SLAs for particular Site. Implementing and using the Monitoring tools like New Relic, Site 24*7 and App Dynamics to keep the application running was great. I feel immense satisfaction as I have witnessed of evolving technologies, from waterfall model to agile and then DevOps and now DevSecOps, Monolithic application architecture to Microservices, On-premise everything to hybrid and then everything to cloud, Be it GCP or Azure. I am currently working with PublicisSapient as Security Engineer under designation of Senior Cloud & DevOps Administrator.
Sapient has a culture of sharing responsibilites where individual is supposed to work with multiple techstack being part of multiple projects. This culture helped me in learning multiple devops tools together and then implementing the knowledge to achieve project goals.
Being Security Engineer with one of banking project, We are supposed to check if all the resources are compliant with Industry Standards.
project is hosted on GCP. Some of its resources are hosted on AWS and some are on Azure. to monitor each cloud workload, we are dependent upon respective security command centre.  but requirement was to implement unified platform which can be used for each cloud workload. Initially we have done POC on Prisma Cloud and found the tool good enough for Unified Security Platform. Prisma Cloud is well versed to notify alert and remediate if there are non compliant resources. Due to high cost, Client thought to give it a try to Microsoft Azure Defender. As Azure defender can bring the data from Google Security Command Centre and AWS Security Hub. This data is then stored into Azure Log Analytical Workspace.
Azure Defender also provide workbooks which can be used to remediate if there are non compliant resource. We can monitor CIS , PCI DSS and NIST compliance resources using Defender for Cloud.
Earlier Azure was using Azure Security Centre and sentinel to work as Security hub for its resources. Now Microsoft has got defender for cloud for all its security needs and implementing this in project giving immense satisfaction. Implementing and Using Azure Logic Apps to remediate the Alert and notification if there are high severity security issues.

Interview Question :
What is Local provisioner in Terraform? - 
Type of  provisioner
local-exec
remote-exec

Terraform commands?

What is difference between replica set and Replication controller?

What Artifacts you are using in your pipeline?

Explain CI/CD Pipeline in your project.




